Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large Language Models: A Survey
YunfanGao1, YunXiong2, XinyuGao2, KangxiangJia2, JinliuPan2, YuxiBi3, Yi
Dai1, JiaweiSun1, QianyuGuo4, MengWang3 and HaofenWang1,3 ∗
1 ShanghaiResearchInstituteforIntelligentAutonomousSystems,TongjiUniversity
2 ShanghaiKeyLaboratoryofDataScience,SchoolofComputerScience,FudanUniversity
3 CollegeofDesignandInnovation,TongjiUniversity
4 SchoolofComputerScience,FudanUniversity
Abstract rior performance on various benchmarks including Super-
GLUE[Wangetal.,2019],MMLU[Hendrycksetal.,2020],
Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate
and BIG-bench [Srivastavaetal.,2022]. Despite these
significant capabilities but face challenges such
advancements, LLMs exhibit notable limitations, par-
as hallucination, outdated knowledge, and non-
ticularly in handling domain-specific or highly special-
transparent, untraceable reasoning processes.
ized queries [Kandpaletal.,2023]. A common issue is
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has
the generation of incorrect information, or ”hallucina-
emerged as a promising solution by incorporating
tions” [Zhangetal.,2023b], especially when queries extend
knowledgefromexternaldatabases. Thisenhances
beyondthemodel’strainingdataornecessitateup-to-datein-
theaccuracyandcredibilityofthemodels,particu-
formation. These shortcomings underscore the impractical-
larlyforknowledge-intensivetasks,andallowsfor
ity of deploying LLMs as black-box solutions in real-world
continuous knowledge updates and integration of
productionenvironmentswithoutadditionalsafeguards. One
domain-specific information. RAG synergistically
promisingapproachtomitigatetheselimitationsisRetrieval-
merges LLMs’ intrinsic knowledge with the vast,
Augmented Generation (RAG), which integrates external
dynamic repositories of external databases. This
data retrieval into the generative process, thereby enhancing
comprehensive review paper offers a detailed
themodel’sabilitytoprovideaccurateandrelevantresponses.
examinationoftheprogressionofRAGparadigms,
RAG, introduced by Lewis et al. [Lewisetal.,2020] in
encompassingtheNaiveRAG,theAdvancedRAG,
mid-2020, stands as a paradigm within the realm of LLMs,
and the Modular RAG. It meticulously scrutinizes
enhancing generative tasks. Specifically, RAG involves an
the tripartite foundation of RAG frameworks,
initial retrieval step where the LLMs query an external data
which includes the retrieval , the generation and
sourcetoobtainrelevantinformationbeforeproceedingtoan-
theaugmentationtechniques. Thepaperhighlights
swerquestionsorgeneratetext.Thisprocessnotonlyinforms
the state-of-the-art technologies embedded in
thesubsequentgenerationphasebutalsoensuresthatthere-
each of these critical components, providing a
sponses are grounded in retrieved evidence, thereby signif-
profound understanding of the advancements in
icantly enhancing the accuracy and relevance of the output.
RAG systems. Furthermore, this paper introduces
Thedynamicretrievalofinformationfromknowledgebases
the metrics and benchmarks for assessing RAG
duringtheinferencephaseallowsRAGtoaddressissuessuch
models, along with the most up-to-date evaluation
as the generation of factually incorrect content, commonly
framework. In conclusion, the paper delineates
referred to as “hallucinations.” The integration of RAG into
prospective avenues for research, including the
LLMshasseenrapidadoptionandhasbecomeapivotaltech-
identification of challenges, the expansion of
nology in refining the capabilities of chatbots and rendering
multi-modalities, and the progression of the RAG
LLMsmoreviableforpracticalapplications.
infrastructureanditsecosystem.1.
The evolutionary trajectory of RAG unfolds across four
distinctive phases, as illustrated in Figure 1. In its in-
1 Introduction ception in 2017, aligned with the emergence of the Trans-
former architecture, the primary thrust was on assimilating
Large language models (LLMs) such as the GPT se-
additional knowledge through Pre-Training Models (PTM)
ries [Brownetal.,2020, OpenAI,2023] and the LLama se-
to augment language models. This epoch witnessed RAG’s
ries [Touvronetal.,2023], along with other models like
foundational efforts predominantly directed at optimizing
Gemini [Google,2023], have achieved remarkable suc-
pre-trainingmethodologies.
cess in natural language processing, demonstrating supe-
Followingthisinitialphase,aperiodofrelativedormancy
∗CorrespondingAuthor.Email:haofen.wang@tongji.edu.cn ensuedbeforetheadventofchatGPT,duringwhichtherewas
1Resourcesareavailableathttps://github.com/Tongji-KGLLM/ minimaladvancementinrelatedresearchforRAG.Thesub-
RAG-Survey sequent arrival of chatGPT marked a pivotal moment in the
4202
naJ
3
]LC.sc[
3v79901.2132:viXra
Figure1:TechnologytreeofRAGresearchdevelopmentfeaturingrepresentativeworks
trajectory, propelling LLMs into the forefront. The com- videacomprehensiveoverviewandanalysisofexistingRAG
munity’s focal point shifted towards harnessing the capabil- technologies and offer conclusions and prospects for future
ities of LLMs to attain heightened controllability and ad- developmentmethods. Thissurveyintendstofurnishreaders
dress evolving requirements. Consequently, the lion’s share andpractitionerswithathoroughandsystematiccomprehen-
of RAG endeavors concentrated on inference, with a minor- sionoflargemodelsandRAG,elucidatetheprogressionand
ity dedicated to fine-tuning processes. As LLM capabili- keytechnologiesofretrievalaugmentation,clarifythemerits
tiescontinuedtoadvance,especiallywiththeintroductionof andlimitationsofvarioustechnologiesalongwiththeirsuit-
GPT-4, the landscape of RAG technology underwent a sig- ablecontexts,andforecastpotentialfuturedevelopments.
nificanttransformation. Theemphasisevolvedintoahybrid Ourcontributionsareasfollows:
approach, combining the strengths of RAG and fine-tuning,
• We present a thorough and systematic review of the
alongsideadedicatedminoritycontinuingthefocusonopti-
state-of-the-art RAG, delineating its evolution through
mizingpre-trainingmethodologies.
paradigms including naive RAG, advanced RAG, and
DespitetherapidgrowthofRAGresearch,therehasbeen modular RAG. This review contextualizes the broader
alackofsystematicconsolidationandabstractioninthefield, scopeofRAGresearchwithinthelandscapeofLLMs.
which poses challenges in understanding the comprehensive • Weidentifyanddiscussthecentraltechnologiesintegral
landscape of RAG advancements. This survey aims to out- totheRAGprocess,specificallyfocusingontheaspects
line the entire RAG process and encompass the current and of “Retrieval”, “Generation” and “Augmentation”, and
future directions of RAG research, by providing a thorough delve into their synergies, elucidating how these com-
examinationofretrievalaugmentationinLLMs. ponents intricately collaborate to form a cohesive and
effectiveRAGframework.
Therefore,thispaperaimstocomprehensivelysummarize
andorganizethetechnicalprinciples,developmentalhistory, • WeconstructathoroughevaluationframeworkforRAG,
content,and,inparticular,therelevantmethodsandapplica- outlining the evaluation objectives and metrics. Our
tionsaftertheemergenceofLLMs,aswellastheevaluation comparative analysis clarifies the strengths and weak-
methods and application scenarios of RAG. It seeks to pro- nesses of RAG compared to fine-tuning from various
perspectives. Additionally, we anticipate future direc- pertinentinformationviasearchalgorithms.Thisinformation
tions for RAG, emphasizing potential enhancements to isthenwovenintotheLLM’sprompts, providingadditional
tackle current challenges, expansions into multi-modal contextforthegenerationprocess. RAG’skeyadvantagelies
settings,andthedevelopmentofitsecosystem. in its obviation of the need for retraining of LLMs for task-
specific applications. Developers can instead append an ex-
Thepaperunfoldsasfollows: Section2and3defineRAG
ternalknowledgerepository,enrichingtheinputandthereby
anddetailitsdevelopmentalprocess. Section4through6ex-
refiningthemodel’soutput