Governed MCP: Kernel-Level Tool Governance
for AI Agents via Logit-Based Safety Primitives
Daeyeon Son
Independent Researcher
Republic of Korea
sdy1350@gmail.com
April 2026
Abstract ecution,shellcommands). TheModelContextProtocol
(MCP),introducedbyAnthropic[1],hasbecomethede
AI agents increasingly call external tools (file sys- facto standard for tool calling: a JSON-RPC interface
tem, network, APIs) through the Model Context Pro- where the agent proposes a tool name and arguments,
tocol (MCP) [1]. These tool calls are the agent’s and a server executes them.
syscalls—privileged operations with side effects on
Tool calls are syscalls. Like syscalls, they cross
shared state—yet today’s safety enforcement lives en-
theprivilegeboundarybetweenagent(lesstrusted)and
tirely in userspace, where a 10-line script can bypass
host (more trusted), and they carry the same risks: ar-
it. I propose Governed MCP, a kernel-resident tool gument exfiltration, side effects on shared state, escala-
governance gateway built on a logit-based safety primi-
tion. Unlike syscalls, they have no kernel mediation.
tive (ProbeLogits, companion paper). The gateway in-
Existing safety infrastructure—NeMo Guardrails [7],
terposes on every MCP tool call in a 6-layer pipeline:
AGTschemas[8], AutoGPT-style[9]wrappers—allop-
schema validation, trust tier check, rate limit, adver-
erateasPythonlibrariesimportedbytheagentprocess,
sarial pre-filter, ProbeLogits gate (the load-bearing se- in the same address space and with the same privilege
mantic check), and constitutional policy match, with a
as the agent itself. The agent decides whether to call
Blake3-hashed audit chain.
them.
I implement Governed MCP in Anima OS, a bare- The structural problem is not that these libraries are
metal x86_64 OS in ∼86,000 lines of Rust. The five weak, but that they are libraries: they cannot be the
non-inference layers add 65.3µs of overhead per call;
privilege boundary between the agent and the host.
ProbeLogits adds 65ms (per-token-class semantic deci-
Listing 1 shows three increasingly subtle ways an agent
sion)on7BQ4_0. A4-configablationona101-prompt
(or compromised tool that exfiltrated credentials) can
MCP-domainbenchmarkshowsthatremovingthePro-
bypass them, none of which require a vulnerability in
beLogits layer collapses F1 from 0.773 to 0.327 (∆F1
the safety library:
= −0.446)—hand-rule firewalling alone is insufficient.
These bypasses succeed because Python imports, at-
All 15 WASM-to-system host functions in the runtime
tribute writes, and dict mutations all run with the
route through the gateway (complete mediation of the
agent’s own privilege. No amount of library-level hard-
WASMABIsurface;thescopeandcaveatsofthisclaim
ening (input validation, signed checks, etc.) closes the
are stated in §4.6); a 10-LoC userspace bypass that de-
gap, becausethegapisattheprivilege boundary: there
feats existing guardrail libraries is structurally impossi-
is no boundary. Any defense the library implements,
ble against the kernel-resident gate.
the agent’s process can also undo.
To my knowledge, no prior system places semantic
The same critique applies to JavaScript wrappers,
safetyenforcementbelowtheagent’sprivilegeboundary
Go middleware, and any other in-process safety layer.
in an operating system. Governed MCP demonstrates
Kernel-grade governance requires that the safety check
that tool-call governance is feasible as an OS primitive,
live in a privilege domain the agent cannot enter.
not just an application-layer concern.
This paper proposes Governed MCP, a kernel-
resident governance gateway that interposes on every
1 Introduction MCP tool call. The gateway runs in the OS kernel
of Anima OS—a bare-metal x86_64 operating system
AIagentsareincreasinglyautonomous,executingmulti- writteninRustwhoseinferenceengineandsafetyprim-
stepplansviatoolcalls(filereads,webfetches,codeex- itives are described in a companion paper [6]. Agents
1
6202
rpA
81
]RC.sc[
1v07861.4062:viXra
design that Listing 1 defeats. The window to define
Listing 1: Three bypass paths for in-process safety li-
what a proper kernel-grade MCP gateway should look
braries. Noneexploitalibrarybug;allrelyontheagent
like is open now, before deployment patterns harden
process having the same privilege as the safety library.
around the current weak architecture.
1 # (1) Skip the import. The library only runs if the
2 # agent code chooses to call it.
3 from openai import OpenAI; from os import system Contributions.
4 # no ‘from nemo_guardrails import LLMRails‘
5 client = OpenAI() 1. A 6-layer kernel-resident MCP governance
6 plan = client.chat.completions.create(...)
7 system(plan.choices[0].message.content) # pipeline (schema, trust, rate, adversarial pre-
unguarded filter, ProbeLogits, constitutional) with 65.3µs non-
8
9 # (2) Replace the function. Same address space => inference overhead and FAIL-CLOSED semantics: if
same write the inference engine is unavailable, all tool calls are
10 # permission to the library’s symbols.
11 import nemoguardrails denied. To my knowledge, this is the first kernel-
12 nemoguardrails.LLMRails.generate = lambda self, p: resident MCP gateway with semantic intent classifi-
p
13 # now every "guarded" call returns the prompt cation.
unfiltered
14 2. Demonstration that the ProbeLogits seman-
15 # (3) Inject the safety verdict. Many libraries
return a tic layer is load-bearing: a 4-configuration ab-
16 # dict; mutate it before the caller checks it. lation on a 101-prompt MCP-domain benchmark
17 result = guardrails.check(prompt)
18 result["allowed"] = True shows ∆F1 = −0.446 when the ProbeLogits gate is
19 # downstream gate sees allowed=True removed (full pipeline F1 = 0.773, no-ProbeLogits
F1=0.327). Hand-rulefirewallingwithoutsemantic
understanding is insufficient.
execute as WASM [2] bytecode in a sandbox above the
3. Complete mediation of the WASM ABI sur-
gateway; the only path from the sandbox to a tool call
face (structural argument + empirical verification):
is through host functions that the kernel exposes, every
all15WASM-to-systemhostfunctionsroutethrough
one of which routes through the gateway. Because the
agent’s WASM context cannot address the gateway’s the gateway via a single governance_check_host()
memory and cannot invoke kernel code except through
entry,thegateway’sMCPentrypointispub(crate)
(not in the WASM ABI), and a test harness enu-
the WASM ABI, the agent cannot skip the check by de-
merates 123 reachable synchronous agent-to-system
sign: there is no userspace shim to monkey-patch be-
paths and verifies each increments the gateway
cause the check is not in userspace.
counter exactly once. The argument is scoped to
Thegatewayisstructuredasasix-layerpipeline. The
the WASM ABI surface (not the entire kernel; out-
first four layers are syntactic and policy checks: JSON-
of-scope items are listed in §3).
RPCschemavalidation,trust-tierwhitelist(whichtools
may be invoked by which trust class of agent), token- 4. Open-source bare-metal implementation
bucket rate limit, and an O(n) regex pre-filter for (∼86,000 lines of Rust, AGPL-3.0) demonstrating
prompt-injection patterns. The fifth layer is the load- that kernel-grade governance is feasible without
bearing semantic check: a single forward pass through proprietary silicon or hypervisor tricks.
the loaded inference model that reads “Safe” vs. “Dan-
gerous” logits at the verbalizer position (the ProbeLog- The remainder of the paper is organized as follows.
itsprimitive). Thesixthappliesa12-principleconstitu- §2 surveys the MCP protocol and existing safety in-
tional policy match. Each tool call appends a Blake3- frastructure. §3 fixes the threat model. §4 describes
hashed audit record. End-to-end overhead on a 7B thegateway’ssix-layerdesignandtheProbeLogitssub-
Q4_0 model is 65ms per call (dominated by the infer- strate. §5 evaluates the gateway end-to-end. §6 dis-
encelayer);thefivenon-inferencelayersaddonly65.3µs cusses generalization, limitations, and fu