1
Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large
Language Models: A Survey
Yunfan Gaoa, Yun Xiongb, Xinyu Gaob, Kangxiang Jiab, Jinliu Panb, Yuxi Bic, Yi Daia, Jiawei Suna, Meng
Wangc, and Haofen Wang a,c
aShanghai Research Institute for Intelligent Autonomous Systems, Tongji University
bShanghai Key Laboratory of Data Science, School of Computer Science, Fudan University
cCollege of Design and Innovation, Tongji University
Abstract—Large Language Models (LLMs) showcase impres- in Figure 1. The development trajectory of RAG in the era
sive capabilities but encounter challenges like hallucination, of large models exhibits several distinct stage characteristics.
outdatedknowledge,andnon-transparent,untraceablereasoning
Initially, RAG’s inception coincided with the rise of the
processes. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged
Transformer architecture, focusing on enhancing language
asapromisingsolutionbyincorporatingknowledgefromexternal
databases. This enhances the accuracy and credibility of the models by incorporating additional knowledge through Pre-
generation,particularlyforknowledge-intensivetasks,andallows Training Models (PTM). This early stage was characterized
for continuous knowledge updates and integration of domain- byfoundationalworkaimedatrefiningpre-trainingtechniques
specific information. RAG synergistically merges LLMs’ intrin-
[3]–[5].The subsequent arrival of ChatGPT [6] marked a
sic knowledge with the vast, dynamic repositories of external
pivotalmoment,withLLMdemonstratingpowerfulincontext
databases. This comprehensive review paper offers a detailed
examinationoftheprogressionofRAGparadigms,encompassing learning (ICL) capabilities. RAG research shifted towards
the Naive RAG, the Advanced RAG, and the Modular RAG. providing better information for LLMs to answer more com-
It meticulously scrutinizes the tripartite foundation of RAG plexandknowledge-intensivetasksduringtheinferencestage,
frameworks,whichincludestheretrieval,thegenerationandthe
leading to rapid development in RAG studies. As research
augmentation techniques. The paper highlights the state-of-the-
progressed, the enhancement of RAG was no longer limited art technologies embedded in each of these critical components,
providingaprofoundunderstandingoftheadvancementsinRAG totheinferencestagebutbegantoincorporatemorewithLLM
systems. Furthermore, this paper introduces up-to-date evalua- fine-tuning techniques.
tionframeworkandbenchmark.Attheend,thisarticledelineates TheburgeoningfieldofRAGhasexperiencedswiftgrowth,
thechallengescurrentlyfacedandpointsoutprospectiveavenues yetithasnotbeenaccompaniedbyasystematicsynthesisthat
for research and development 1.
could clarify its broader trajectory. This survey endeavors to
IndexTerms—Largelanguagemodel,retrieval-augmentedgen- fill this gap by mapping out the RAG process and charting
eration, natural language processing, information retrieval
its evolution and anticipated future paths, with a focus on the
integration of RAG within LLMs. This paper considers both
technicalparadigmsandresearchmethods,summarizingthree
I. INTRODUCTION
main research paradigms from over 100 RAG studies, and
LARGE language models (LLMs) have achieved remark-
analyzing key technologies in the core stages of “Retrieval,”
ablesuccess,thoughtheystillfacesignificantlimitations,
“Generation,”and“Augmentation.”Ontheotherhand,current
especiallyindomain-specificorknowledge-intensivetasks[1],
researchtendstofocusmoreonmethods,lackinganalysisand
notably producing “hallucinations” [2] when handling queries
summarization of how to evaluate RAG. This paper compre-
beyondtheirtrainingdataorrequiringcurrentinformation.To
hensivelyreviewsthedownstreamtasks,datasets,benchmarks,
overcomechallenges,Retrieval-AugmentedGeneration(RAG)
and evaluation methods applicable to RAG. Overall, this
enhances LLMs by retrieving relevant document chunks from
paper sets out to meticulously compile and categorize the
external knowledge base through semantic similarity calcu-
foundational technical concepts, historical progression, and
lation. By referencing external knowledge, RAG effectively
the spectrum of RAG methodologies and applications that
reduces the problem of generating factually incorrect content.
have emerged post-LLMs. It is designed to equip readers and
ItsintegrationintoLLMshasresultedinwidespreadadoption,
professionals with a detailed and structured understanding of
establishing RAG as a key technology in advancing chatbots
bothlargemodelsandRAG.Itaimstoilluminatetheevolution
and enhancing the suitability of LLMs for real-world applica-
of retrieval augmentation techniques, assess the strengths and
tions.
weaknessesofvariousapproachesintheirrespectivecontexts,
RAG technology has rapidly developed in recent years, and
and speculate on upcoming trends and innovations.
the technology tree summarizing related research is shown
Our contributions are as follows:
• In this survey, we present a thorough and systematic
CorrespondingAuthor.Email:haofen.wang@tongji.edu.cn
review of the state-of-the-art RAG methods, delineating
1Resources are available at https://github.com/Tongji-KGLLM/
RAG-Survey its evolution through paradigms including naive RAG,
4202
raM
72
]LC.sc[
5v79901.2132:viXra
2
Fig.1. TechnologytreeofRAGresearch.ThestagesofinvolvingRAGmainlyincludepre-training,fine-tuning,andinference.WiththeemergenceofLLMs,
researchonRAGinitiallyfocusedonleveragingthepowerfulincontextlearningabilitiesofLLMs,primarilyconcentratingontheinferencestage.Subsequent
researchhasdelveddeeper,graduallyintegratingmorewiththefine-tuningofLLMs.Researchershavealsobeenexploringwaystoenhancelanguagemodels
inthepre-trainingstagethroughretrieval-augmentedtechniques.
advanced RAG, and modular RAG. This review contex- faces and its future development directions. At last, the paper
tualizes the broader scope of RAG research within the concludes in Section VIII.
landscape of LLMs.
• We identify and discuss the central technologies integral II. OVERVIEWOFRAG
to the RAG process, specifically focusing on the aspects
A typical application of RAG is illustrated in Figure 2.
of “Retrieval”, “Generation” and “Augmentation”, and
Here, a user poses a question to ChatGPT about a recent,
delve into their synergies, elucidating how these com-
widely discussed news. Given ChatGPT’s reliance on pre-
ponents intricately collaborate to form a cohesive and
training data, it initially lacks the capacity to provide up-
effective RAG framework.
dates on recent developments. RAG bridges this information
• We have summarized the current assessment methods of gap by sourcing and incorporating knowledge from external
RAG, covering 26 tasks, nearly 50 datasets, outlining
databases.Inthiscase,itgathersrelevantnewsarticlesrelated
the evaluation objectives and metrics, as well as the
to the user’s query. These articles, combined with the original
current evaluation benchmarks and tools. Additionally,
question, form a comprehensive prompt that empowers LLMs
we anticipate future directions for RAG, emphasizing
to generate a well-informed answer.
potential enhancements to tackle current challenges.
The RAG research paradigm is continuously evolving, and
we categorize it into three stages: Naive RAG, Advanced
The paper unfolds as follows: Section II introduces the
RAG, and Modular RAG, as showed in Figure 3. Despite
main concept and current paradigms of RAG. The following
RAG method are cost-effective and surpass the performance
three sections explore core components—“Retrieval”, “Gen-
of the native LLM, they also exhibit several limitations.
eration”and“Augmentation”,respectively.SectionIIIfocuses
The development of Advanced RAG and Modular RAG is
onoptimizationmethodsinretrieval,includingindexing,query
a response to these specific shortcomings in Naive RAG.
andembeddingoptimization.SectionIVconcentratesonpost-
retrievalprocessandLLMfine-tuningingeneration.SectionV
A. Naive RAG
analyzesthethreeaugmentationprocesses.SectionVIfocuses
o